When  Mr.  Bilbo  Baggins  of  Bag  End  announced  that  hewould shortly be celebrating his eleventy-first birthday witha  party  of  special  magnificence,  there  was  much  talk  andexcitement in Hobbiton.Bilbo was very rich and very peculiar, and had been thewonder of the Shire for sixty years, ever since his remarkabledisappearance  and  unexpected  return.  The  riches  he  hadbrought back from his travels had now become a local legend,and  it  was  popularly  believed,  whatever  the  old  folk  mightsay, that the Hill at Bag End was full of tunnels stuffed withtreasure. And if that was not enough for fame, there was alsohis  prolonged  vigour  to  marvel  at.  Time  wore  on,  but  itseemed to have little effect on Mr. Baggins. At ninety he wasmuch the same as at fifty. At ninety-nine they began to callhimwell-preserved; butunchangedwould have been nearer themark. There were some that shook their heads and thoughtthis  was  too  much  of  a  good  thing;  it  seemed  unfair  thatanyone should possess (apparently) perpetual youth as wellas (reputedly) inexhaustible wealth.‘It will have to be paid for,’ they said. ‘It isn’t natural, andtrouble will come of it!’But so far trouble had not come; and as Mr. Baggins wasgenerous with his money, most people were willing to for-give  him  his  oddities  and  his  good  fortune.  He  remainedon  visiting  terms  with  his  relatives  (except,  of  course,  theSackville-Bagginses),  and  he  had  many  devoted  admirersamong the hobbits of poor and unimportant families. But hehad no close friends, until some of his younger cousins beganto grow up.
28the fellowship of the ringThe eldest of these, and Bilbo’s favourite, was young FrodoBaggins. When Bilbo was ninety-nine he adopted Frodo ashis heir, and brought him to live at Bag End; and the hopes ofthe Sackville-Bagginses were finally dashed. Bilbo and Frodohappened to have the same birthday, September22nd. ‘Youhad  better  come  and  live  here,  Frodo  my  lad,’  said  Bilboone  day;  ‘and  then  we  can  celebrate  our  birthday-partiescomfortably  together.’  At  that  time  Frodo  was  still  in  histweens,   as   the   hobbits   called   the   irresponsible   twentiesbetween childhood and coming of age at thirty-three.Twelve more years passed. Each year the Bagginses hadgiven very lively combined birthday-parties at Bag End; butnow  it  was  understood  that  something  quite  exceptionalwas being planned for that autumn. Bilbo was going to beeleventy-one,111,  a  rather  curious  number,  and  a  very  re-spectable age for a hobbit (the Old Took himself had onlyreached130); and Frodo was going to bethirty-three,33,animportant number: the date of his ‘coming of age’.Tongues  began  to  wag  in  Hobbiton  and  Bywater;  andrumour of the coming event travelled all over the Shire. Thehistory  and  character  of  Mr.  Bilbo  Baggins  became  onceagain  the  chief  topic  of  conversation;  and  the  older  folksuddenly found their reminiscences in welcome demand.No  one  had  a  more  attentive  audience  than  old  HamGamgee, commonly known as the Gaffer. He held forth atThe Ivy Bush, a small inn on the Bywater road; and he spokewith  some  authority,  for  he  had  tended  the  garden  at  BagEnd for forty years, and had helped old Holman in the samejob  before  that.  Now  that  he  was  himself  growing  old  andstiff in the joints, the job was mainly carried on by his young-est  son,  Sam  Gamgee.  Both  father  and  son  were  on  veryfriendly terms with Bilbo and Frodo. They lived on the Hillitself, in Number3Bagshot Row just below Bag End